P8105 FINAL PROJECT PROPOSAL
================
2023-11-09

#### Group members

Selina Hsuan (sh4354), Ghislaine Jumonville (gj2356), Carolyn Fish
(csf2135), Camille Okonkwo (co2554), Sanika Sule (ss6692)

#### Project title

Getting to know Central Parkâ€™s Squirrels: An analysis of the demographic
and behavioral patterns of NYC squirrels

#### Motivation/ Statement of Purpose

Squirrels are familiar neighbors to all New Yorkers. Central Park
provides over 800 acres of prime habitat for approximately 2,300
squirrels (roughly 2.74 squirrels per acre)1. Given the high prevalence
of squirrels in New York City and their versatile role as friends,
pests, vectors for diseases, such as rabies, and snacks to local
predators, we aim to describe behavioral trends and spatial distribution
of squirrel sightings in Central Park using 2018 Squirrel Census data2.

#### Intended final product

A descriptive report of Central Park squirrel demography and behavior.
Results will also be shared via a GitHub hosted Webpage and a short
explanatory video.

#### Data sources

Squirrel census data is publicly available for download here: Squirrel
Census Data.

#### Analyses/ Visualizations

We anticipate our analysis of Central Park squirrels will generate: -
Squirrel demography table (fur color, age, fur highlight color) -
Descriptive table of squirrel activity and time of survey (AM/PM,
location, activity, vocalizations) - A density cluster map of Central
Park squirrel sightings (Central Park in whole, by zipcode, by community
district)

*Additional figures will likely be derived from the descriptive tables
to better demonstrate any interesting findings that we observe in the
data.*

#### Coding challenges

We anticipate the data will require substantial cleaning and the ability
to appropriately test significance in demographic, behavioral, or
spatial distributions may be limited by small sample size. If the 2018
census sample is insufficient, we may have to bring in 2020 Squirrel
Census data. Joining of these data sets may require additional tidying
and research to ensure variables were reproducibly measured for each
survey.

#### References

<https://www.centralparknyc.org/articles/getting-to-know-central-parks-squirrels>
<https://www.thesquirrelcensus.com/data>
